==Welcome!==

This is part exercise, part sharing what I like. Here is a bunch of pictures of art that I like. I'll only post the stuff I can confidently cite. Please support these wonderful people and their craft. 

This first set is Hirsohi Nagai. He's from Japan, and I found out about his art in college! (~2019) It's a funny story, mostly surrounding the story of City Pop! So when I was in high school I used to listen to a lot of vaporwave, some good references to look at are songs like Home - Resonance and Machintosh Plus - (Japanese text that I cannot write here in Vim) and Private Caller by Saint Pepsi (now Skylar Spence)

As I started getting tired of listening to these two songs when I did homework. I slowly started listening to other adjacent genres to Vaporwave. Specifically, I started listening to Future Funk. 

If Vaporwave could be characterized by lofi downtempo beats, Future Funk was the fun older brother who played a saxophone. Artists in this genre included folks like Yung Bae, Macross 82-99, and Adrianwave. Songs you should listen to from these aritsts are 89.99 FM By Macross 82-99, Bae City Rollaz by Yung Bae, and It's Good to See you Again! by Adrianwave

The genre was really based off of City pop. Describing the musical pop explosion that happened in Japan during the 80s as synths really started to get popular. During this time, Japan was experiencing its economic boom. With prosperity surrounding the country, the music really reflected that attitude. Songs like Shyness Boy and Windy by Anri capture this upbeat feeling. Other artists like Tatusro Yamashida would croon to us with songs like Love Spacey while Miki Matsubara delivers her heartfelt pleas in Stay With Me. 

I've only mentioned the bare surface of the pop side of things of the music that was made in Japan in the 80s. I'll add more stuff here




There WERE pictures here, but it seems that the website I was using to refer to them has moved them. Soon you'll find new pictures of some art 
