This is for "Trouble, send CV"


Problem 1:

Part a: Show that $T\mathbb{S}^1$ is a trivial bundle, but that $T \mathbb{S}^2$ is not trivial.

Proof: To see why $T \mathbb{S}^1$ is trivial. 

To see why $T \mathbb{S}^2$ is not trivial. A global trivialization would mean that there is a global section of the tangent space, i.e. we can give assign a nontrivial tangent vector to every point on the manifold. This is vector field that is nonvanishing at every point on $\mathbb{S}^2$. Which is a contradiction of the Hairy Ball theorem. Thus, $T \mathbb{S}^2$ is not a trivial bundle.

Part b: Viewing $\mathbb{S}^2 \subset \mathbb{R}^3$ as an embedded submanifold, let $N \mathbb{S}^2$ be the orthogonal complement to $T\mathbb{S}^2$ inside $T\mathbb{R}^3$. Show that $N\mathbb{S}^2$ is a trivial bundle.

Proof: The normal vector to a point $p \in \mathbb{S}^2$ is the vector pointing radially outward, set at $p$. Passing it to $\{p\} \times \mathbb{R}^3$, the vector is exactly the one at the origin that points to $p$.

Part c: For a smooth manifold $M$, show that $T^*M$ is trivial if and only if $TM$ is trivial.

Proof: If any one of them is trivial, then there is a global frame. By 

Problem 2:

Part a: Show that $f \in \mathcal{J}_p ^2$ if and only if in any smooth local coordinates, its first order Taylor expansion at $p$ is zero.

Proof:

Part b: Define a map $\Phi : \mathcal{J}_p \rightarrow T^*_pM$ by setting $\Phi(f) = d_p f$. Show that the restriction of $\Phi$ to $\mathcal{J}_p ^2$ is zero, and that $\Phi$ descends to a vector space isomorphism from $\mathcal{J}_p / \mathcal{J}_p ^2$ to $T^* _p M$.

Proof:

Problem 3: If $F: M \rightarrow N$ is a smooth map and $\eta \in \mathfrak{X}^* (N)$ is a covector field on $N$, then for all curves $\gamma: J \rightarrow M$. $\begin{equation} \int_{\gamma} F^* \eta = \int_{F \circ \gamma} \eta \end{equation}$.

Proof:

Problem 4: Let $f: M \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ be a smooth function, $S \subset M$ an embedded submanifold, and $\iota : S \rightarrow M$ the inclusion/embedding. Show that $d(f|_S) = \iota ^*(df)$. Conclude that $\iota ^*(df) \equiv 0$ if and only if $f$ is constant on each component of $S$, and that if $f|_S$ has a local maximum or minimum at $p \in S$, then $\iota ^* (d_pf) = 0 $.

Proof:For the first equality, observe that $\iota^* df_p(v) = df_p(di_p(v)) = df_p(v) = d(f|_S)$. 

Next, if $\iota^*(df) \equiv 0$, then $df_p(v) = \frac{\partial f}{\partial x^i} \frac{\partial}{\partial x} |_{f(p)} = 0$ for all $p \in S$. Since $\frac{\partial f}{\partial x^i} = 0$ only when $f$ is a constant function. Hence, $f$ is constant on every point of $S$ and so it is also constant on every component. In the other direction, if $f$ is constant on each component of $S$, then $df|_S : T_pS \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ is the zero map. So $df_p(v) = df_p(d\iota_p(v)) = i^*df_p(v)$ still maps to zero. I.e. $\iota^*(df) \equiv 0$. 

Finally, if $f|_S$ has a local min or max at $p \in S$. This corresponds to the fact that the differential of $f$ at $p$ is zero. So, $0 = df_p(v) = df_p(di_p(v)) = \iota^* df_p(v)$. 

Problem 5: Let $M$ be a smooth manifold and $S \subset M$ an embedded submanifold of codimension $k$. Let $f\ \in C^{\infty}(M)$, and suppose that $f|_S$ attains a local maximum or minimum at $p\in S$. If $\Phi = (\Phi_1, \ldots, \Phi_k) : U \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^k$ is a local defining function of $S$ in a neighborhood $U$ of $p$ (meaning $S \cap U = \Phi^{-1}(0)$). Show that there are real numbers $\lambda_1, \ldots, \lambda_k$ such that $\begin{equation} d_pf = \lambda_1 d_p \Phi ^1 + \ldots + \lambda_k d_p \Phi ^k \end{equation}$.

Proof:
