Homework 1:

Question 1: Consider an open set $U \in \mathbb{R}^k$ and a function $f: U \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^{n-k}$. The graph of $f$ is the set of points $(x_1, ..., x_n) \in \mathbb{R}^n$ with $(x_{k+1}, ..., x_n) = f(x_1, ..., x_k)$.

a: The graph of $f$ was parametrized by $\begin{equation}\varphi(x_1, ..., x_k) = (x_1, ..., x_k, f(x_1, ..., x_k)) \end{equation}$. Show that the derivative $D\varphi(x_1, ..., x_k)$ is an injective linear map at all $(x_1, ..., x_k) \in U$.

Answer: Consider the matrix of partial derivatives $D \varphi$:
$\begin{equation} D\varphi = \begin{bmatrix} \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial x_1} &\ \cdots & \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial  x_k} & \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_{k+1}} & \cdots & \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_n} \\ \vdots & \ddots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_1} & \cdots & \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_k} & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_{k+1}} & \cdots & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_n} \end{bmatrix} \end{equation}$

Observe that for $i=j$, we get that $\frac{\partial \varphi_i}{\partial x_i} = 1$, otherwise, it is $0$ for $i \neq j$. So then:

$\begin{equation} D\varphi = \begin{bmatrix} 1 & \cdots & 0 & \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_{k+1}} & \cdots & \frac{\partial{f_1}}{{\partial x_n}} \\ \vdots & \ddots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ 0 & \cdots & 1 & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_{k+1}} & \cdots & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_n} \end{bmatrix} \end{equation}$

Since the matrix of partial derivatives has full rank, we can conclude it is an injective map.

To see why $D \varphi$ is linear observe that for $ a \in \mathbb{R}$, $aD\varphi= a * \begin{bmatrix} \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial x_1} &\ \cdots & \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial  x_k} & \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_{k+1}} & \cdots & \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_n} \\ \vdots & \ddots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_1} & \cdots & \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_k} & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_{k+1}} & \cdots & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_n} \end{bmatrix} =  \begin{bmatrix} a *\frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial x_1} &\ \cdots & a* \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial  x_k} & a* \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_{k+1}} & \cdots & a* \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_n} \\ \vdots & \ddots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ a* \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_1} & \cdots & a* \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_k} & a* \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_{k+1}} & \cdots & a* \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_n} \end{bmatrix} = D(a\varphi)$


Now, let $a,b \in \mathbb{R}^k$, then $D\varphi(a+b) =$
$\begin{equation} \begin{bmatrix} \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial x_1}(a+b) &\ \cdots & \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial  x_k}(a+b) & \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_{k+1}}(a+b) & \cdots & \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_n}(a+b) \\ \vdots & \ddots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_1}(a+b) & \cdots & \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_k}(a+b) & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_{k+1}}(a+b) & \cdots & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_n}(a+b) \end{bmatrix} \end{equation}$

We distribute the partial derivatives over our vectors $a$ and $b$ to then get the following:

$\begin{equation} D\varphi(a+b) = \begin{bmatrix} \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial x_1}(a) &\ \cdots & \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial  x_k}(a) & \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_{k+1}}(a) & \cdots & \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_n}(a) \\ \vdots & \ddots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_1}(a) & \cdots & \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_k}(a) & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_{k+1}}(a) & \cdots & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_n}(a) \end{bmatrix} + \begin{bmatrix} \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial x_1}(b) &\ \cdots & \frac{\partial \varphi_1}{\partial  x_k}(b) & \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_{k+1}}(b) & \cdots & \frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_n}(b) \\ \vdots & \ddots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\ \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_1}(b) & \cdots & \frac{\partial \varphi_k}{\partial x_k}(b) & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_{k+1}}(b) & \cdots & \frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_n}(b) \end{bmatrix} = D\varphi(a) + D\varphi(b) \end{equation}$

Thus, we can conclude that $D\varphi$ is an injective linear map at all $(x_1, ..., x_k) \in U$.

b: To do. Derivative of $g(x_1, ..., x_n) = (x_{k+1}, ..., x_n) - f(x_1,..., x_k) = (x_{k+1} - f_1(x_1,..., x_k) , ..., x_n - f_k(x_1, ..., x_k))$

Question 2: This uses the [[Implicit Function Theorem]]. If we consider the level set $\{g=0\}$ for some function $g: \mathbb{R}^n \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^{n-k}$, where $Dg$ has rank $n-k$ at every point where $g=0$. Let $g(a_1, ..., a_n) = 0$, and apply the implicit function theorem to write some neighborhood of $(a_1, ..., a_n)$, say $U$ on the level set as the graph of a function $f: \mathbb{R}^k \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^{n-k}$. What variables in $\mathbb{R}^n$ act as the domain of $f$?

Solution: Let's reimagine $g$ like this. $g: \mathbb{R}^n = \mathbb{R} ^k \times \mathbb{R}^{n-k} \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^{n-k}$. With both $U$, and $a$ are written in similar form. Since $g$ has constant rank at every zero, the derivtive of $g$ is injective. So then by the IFT, we can find neighborhoods $V_0 \subseteq \mathbb{R}^n$ of $(a_1, ..., a_k)$ and $W_0 \subseteq \mathbb{R}^{n-k}$ of $(a_{k+1}, ..., a_n)$ with a smooth function $F: V_0 \rightarrow W_0$ such that $g^{-1}(a_1, ..., a_n) \cap (V_0 \times W_0)$ is the graph of $F$. The variables in $\mathbb{R}^n$ that act as the domain of $f$ are the $k$ coordinates that we for $g: \mathbb{R}^k \times \mathbb{R}^{n-k}\rightarrow \mathbb{R}{n-k}$. Those coordinates will us the appropriate domain of $f$ that correspond to its graph.

Question 3: The points of the projective plane $\mathbb{RP}^2$ correspond to the lines $ax +by +cz =0$ through the origin in $\mathbb{R}^3$. We have 3 open sets with corresponding charts. $U_1= \{a \neq 0 \}$, $U_2 = \{b \neq 0\}$, $U_3 = \{c \neq 0 \}$

$\begin {equation} \varphi_1(ax+by+cz=0) = (\frac{b}{a}, \frac{c}{a}) \end{equation}$

Define $\varphi_2, \varphi_3$. Compute the transition function $\psi = \varphi_2 \circ \varphi ^{-1}_1$ and show that it is smooth.

Solution: The corresponding maps are $\varphi_2: U_2 \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^2$, $\varphi_3: U_3 \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^2$. Where

$\begin{equation} \varphi_2(ax+by+cz=0) = (\frac{a}{b}, \frac{c}{b}) \end{equation}$

$\begin{equation} \varphi_3(ax+by+cz=0) = (\frac{a}{c}, \frac{b}{c}) \end{equation}$

Now, let $(a,b) \in \mathbb{R}^2$ and consider the the transition function $\varphi_2 \circ \varphi^{-1}_1: \varphi_1(U_1 \cap U_2) \rightarrow \varphi_2(U_1 \cap U_2)$. Upon evaluation, $\varphi_2 ( \varphi^{-1}_1(b,c)) = \varphi_2(x+by+cz=0) = (\frac{1}{b}, \frac{c}{b})$. Since $\frac{1}{x}$ is smooth for $x\neq0$, we can see that the transition function is smooth on its components and thus, a smooth function.

Problem 4: Let $\mathcal{A}$ be an atlas of charts on a smooth manifold $M$. Let $(U_1, \varphi _1)$ and $(U_2, \varphi_2)$ be charts on $M$ that are smoothly compatible with the atlas $\mathcal{A}$. Show that $\varphi_1$ and $\varphi_2$ are smooth compatile with each other.

Solution: Let's recall the definition of smoothly compatible. Two charts $(V, \psi) , (W, \kappa)$ are called smoothly compatible whenever $V \cap W = \emptyset$ or $\psi \circ \kappa ^{-1}$ is a diffeomorphism. If we are in the first case, then we are already finished. The empty intersection implies that $\varphi_1 , \varphi_2$ are smoothly compatible. If we are in the second case, consider the following. Since each of the maps is smoothly compatible with $\mathcal{A}$, let $\nu$ be a chart in $\mathcal{A}$ that is smoothly compatible with both $\varphi_1$ and $\varphi_2$ in the latter sense. From this, we can observe that $\varphi_1 \circ \nu ^{-1}$ and $\nu \circ \varphi_2 ^{-1}$ are diffeomorphisms. So then $\varphi_1 \circ \nu ^{-1} \circ \nu \circ \varphi_2^{-1} = \varphi_1 \circ \varphi_2^{-1}$ is also a diffeomorphism. Thus, our two charts are also smoothly compatible.

Problem 5: Let $M$ be a manifold with boundary. Let $x \in M$ be a point and $(U_1, \varphi_1)$ a chart on $M$ with $x\in U_1$ and $\varphi_1(x) \in \partial \mathbb{H}^n = \{(x_1, ..., x_n) | x_n=0 \}$. If $(U_2, \varphi_2)$ is any other chart on $M$ with $x\in U_2$, show that $\varphi_2(x) \in \partial \mathbb{H}^n$ as well. 

Solution: Since $U_1 \cap U_2 \neq \emptyset$. The transition function $\varphi_2 \circ \varphi^{-1}_1: \varphi_1(U_1 \cap U_2) \rightarrow \varphi_2(U_1 \cap U_2)$ is a homeomorphism. $\varphi_1(x) \in \mathbb{H}^n$ guarantees our homeomorphism $\varphi_2(x) \in \partial \mathbb{H}^n$.
