Exercise 1.2.5

Prove that $Tot(C)$ is acyclic if the double complex is bounded and the rows and columns are exact.

Solution: Let $C$ be a bounded double complex with exact rows and columns and consider $x=(x_{p,q}) \in Tot(C)_n$, where $p+q = n$ for any integers $p,q$.


Recall that $d(x_{p,q}) = d^h(x_{p,q}) + d^v(x_{p,q})$. Since $C$ is bounded, we can look at the north eastern most nontrivial module $C_{i,j}$ and hence nontrivial $Tot(C)_k$.

The procedure is as follow: Start with $d(x_{p,q}) = d^h(x_{p,q}) + d^v(x_{p,q})$, note that if $x_{p,q}$ lies in the kernel of $d$, then there exists an element $x_{p-1,q+1}$ such that $d^h(x_{p-1,q+1}) = 0$. Exactness of our columns then tells us that $x_{p-1,q+1}=d^v(x_{p-1,q+2})$. An identical argument can be made for the rows. Combining these facts together we see that every element in $Ker(d_{n})$ comes from an element in $Im(d_{n-1}$. Hence $Im(d_{n-1}) = Ker(d_n)$

Thus $Tot(C)$ is acyclic.

Exercise 1.3.1

Let $0 \to A \to B \to C \to 0$ be a short exact sequence of complexes. Show that if two of the three complexes A,B,C are exact, then so is the third.

Solution: First, let $B,C$ be exact complexes. Then, their homologies are 0 everywhere. So we can look at instead the short exact sequence $0 \to H_n(A) \to 0 \to 0 \to 0$. Wherein exactness tells us immediately that $H_n(A)$ is trivial, hence $A$ is exact. 

This argument can be repeated for $A,C$ and $A,B$. So we're done.

Exercise 1.3.3: The 5 lemma

This one will be turned in by hand, it's better with the diagram and I can't use tikz in this environment.

Exercise 1.3.5: 

Let $f$ be a morphism of chain complexes. Show that if $ker(f)$ and $coker(f)$ are acyclic, then $f$ is a quasi-isomorphism. Is the converse true?

Solution: Let $A,B$ be chain complexes and $f: A \to B$ a morphism. We will show that if $ker(f)$ and $coker(f)$ are acyclic, then $f$ is a quasi-isomorphism.

Notice that we get a short exact sequence $0 \to ker(f) \to A \to Im(f) \to 0$ and $0 \to Im(f) \to B \to coker(f) \to 0$. If we look at the long exact sequence of homology that is induced from the first part. It looks like $0 \to 0 \to H_n(A) \to H_n(Im(f)) \to 0$ since both $ker(f)$ and $Im(f)$ are acyclic. Exactness of this sequence tells us that $H_n(A) \cong H_n(Im(f))$. We can make the exact same argument for the other short exact sequence and the induced long exact sequence on homology for that. Which means we get $H_n(A) \cong H_n(Im(f)) \cong H_(B)$. Thus $f$ is a quasi-isomorphism from A to B. 

The converse is not true. This is show by the following example: Let $A$ be the chain complex $\ldots \to 0 \to 0 \to \mathbb{Z} \to \mathbb{Z} \to 0 \to \ldots$ and $B$ the chain complex $\ldots \to 0 \to \mathbb{Z} \to \mathbb{Z} \to 0 \to 0\to \ldots $ where only the middle $\mathbb{Z}$ terms coincide, everywhere else 0. 

If we let $f$ be the chain complex morphism $f: A \to B$ that sends the middle $\mathbb{Z}$ to the middle $\mathbb{Z}$ and everywhere else 0, then $ker(f)$ and $coker(f)$ are not acyclic. But $f$ is a quasi-isomorphism. Since the Homologies of $ker(f)$ and $coker(f)$ are nontrivial at exactly one place. 
