Here is my homework 2

Problem 2.4: Let $F_1, F_2, \ldots$ be classes of sets in a common space $\Omega$.

Part a: Suppose that $F_n$ are fields satisfying $F_n \subset F_{n+1}$. Show that $\cup_{n=1}^{\infty} F_n$ is a field.

Proof: If $A \in \cup_{n=1}^{\infty} F_n$, then there exists some field $F_k, k \geq 1$ such that $A \in F_k$. Then $F^c \in F_k$ and so $F^c \in \cup_{n=1}^{\infty} F_n$. Since $\emptyset \in F_n$ for all $n>0$, we get that $\Omega \in F_n$ for all $n$ and thus $\Omega \in \cup_{n=1}^{\infty} F_n$. Given a finite union $\cup A_j \in \cup F_n$. Each $A_j$ is an element of some $F_k$, $k \in \{1, \ldots, \}$. Since this union is finite, we can find the largest such $F_k$ containing the other $F_i$'s. This is a field, and thus $\cup A_j \in F_k \subset \cup F_n$. Thus, the union of fields is also a field.

Part b: Suppose that $F_n$ are $\sigma$-fields satisfying $F_n \subset F_{n+1}$. Show by example that $\cup_{n=1}^{\infty} F_n$ need not be a $\sigma$-field.

Proof: Let $F_n$ be the set of all possible subsets of $\{1, \ldots, n\}$ where $n \in \mathbb{N}$. Each $F_n$ is a $\sigma$-field. However, if we consider $E_n =\{2n\}$, then clearly $E_n \in F_{2n}$. However, $\cup_{n=1}^{\infty} E_n \in \cup F_n$ but $\cup_{n=1}^{\infty} E_n \notin F_n$ for any $n \in \mathbb{N}$. Thus, the union of $\sigma$-fields is not always a $\sigma$-field.

Problem 2.9: Show that if $B \in \sigma(A)$, then there exists a countable subclass $A_B$ of $A$ such that $B \in \sigma(A_b)$.

Proof: Let $C = \sqcup \{ \sigma(F) | F \subseteq A \textrm{ and } F \textrm{ is countable} \}$. Then we claim that $C$ is a $\sigma$-field. Proving the claim, notice that $\Omega \in C$ since each $\sigma(F)$ contains it. If $E \in C$, then $E$ is in one of the $\sigma(F)$, and thus $E^c \in \sigma(F)$ and so $E^c \in C$. Finally, if $E_1, \ldots, \in C$, then there is a subclass $F$ that consists of the countable $E_1, \ldots$. Thus, the $\sigma$-field generated by that subclass is also in $C$. Thus, the union of the $E_1, \ldots$ is also in $C$. Thus, $C$ is a $\sigma$-field. 

Clearly, we can see that $C \subseteq \sigma(A)$. If $B \in A$, then $B \in \sigma(B) \subseteq C$. Since $B$ was arbitrary, we conclude that $\sigma(A) \subseteq C$. Thus, $C=\sigma(A)$. So then, given any $B \in \sigma(A)$, we have that $B \in C$. So then $B$ lies in one of the possible $\sigma(F)$, where $F$ is countable. Set $F = A_B$, then $B \in \sigma(A_B)$.

Problem 2.12: Show that a $\sigma$-field cannot be countably infinite -- its cardinality must be finite or else at least that of the continuum. Show by example that a field can be countably infinite.

Proof: Assume for sake of contradiction, that there was a countably infinite $\sigma$-field, $F$, over a base space $\Omega$. If we consider the map $f: \Omega \rightarrow F$ where $f(x) = \cap_{x \in A} A$ where $A \in S$. This sends an element, $x$, to the smallest set containing it in $S$. This map is injective. If $f(x) \cap f(y) \neq \emptyset$ and $x \notin f(y)$, then $f(x) \setminus f(y) \in F$ which is a smaller set containing $x$. Thus, $x \in f(y)$ and $y \in f(x)$. Since $f$ maps our point to the smallest set in $F$ containing it, $x \in f(x) \subseteq f(y)$ and $y \in f(y) \subseteq f(x)$. Thus, $x=y$. Since each point gets mapped uniquely to a set containing it in $\Omega$, we could write $f(\Omega)$ as a union of sets in $F$. Similarly, we can write any set in $F$ as a union of sets in the image $f(\Omega)$. So then $|F| = |P(f(\Omega))|$. But this is uncountable, so we're done. 

Problem 2.15: On the field $B_0$ in $(0,1]$ define $P(A)$ to be 1 or 0 according as there does or does not exist some positive $\epsilon_A$ such that $A$ contains the interval $(\frac{1}{2}, \frac{1}{2} + \epsilon_A]$. Show that $P$ is finitely but not countably additive. 

Proof: Let $A_k, k \in \mathbb{N}$ be sets that for any $\epsilon_k > 0$, we have that $A_k$ does not contain $(\frac{1}{2}, \frac{1}{2} + \epsilon_k]$. Notice that $P(\cup_{k=1}^{\infty} A_k) = P((\cap_{k=1}^{\infty} A_{k}^{c})^c) = 1 - P(\cap_{k=1}^{\infty} A_{k}^{c}) = 1$. The thing to note here is that as $n \rightarrow \infty$ we get that $P(\cap_{k=1}^{n} A_{k}^{c}) = 0$. However, we have that $\sum_{k=1}^{\infty} P(A_k) = 0 $. Thus, $P$ is not countably additive. 

Problem 3.11:

Part a: Show that a $\lambda$-system satisfies the conditions:

$(\lambda_4) A,B \in L$ and $A \cap B = \emptyset$ imply $A \cup B \in L$

$(\lambda_5) A_1, A_2, \ldots \in L$ and $A_n \uparrow A$ imply $A \in L$

$(\lambda_6) A_1, A_2, \ldots \in L$ and $A_n \downarrow A$ imply $A \in L$

Proof:

$(\lambda_4)$: If $A,B \in L$ and $A\cap B = \emptyset$. Then $A \cup B \in L$ by $(\lambda_3)$.

$(\lambda_5)$: If $A_1, \ldots \in L$ with $A_n \subset A_{n+1}$ and $A_n \uparrow A$. Let $B_n = A_n \setminus A_{n-1}$. Then $B_{n+1} \cap B_n = \emptyset$ and $\cup B_i = \cup A_i$. Since each $B_i$ is disjoint, then $\cup B_i \in L$, so $\cup A_i \in L$. Thus $A \in L$.

$(\lambda_6)$: We know that $\cap A_n = A$, so then $\cup A_{n}^{c} = A^c$. Meaning that $A_{n}^{c} \subset A_{n+1}^{c}$. Let $B_n = A_{n+1}^{c} \setminus A_{n}^c$. Note that the $B_n$'s are disjoint and that $\cup B_n \in F$. However, we also have that $\cup B_n = A^c$. Then this means that $A^c \in F$ and thus $A \in F$.

Part b: Show that $F$ is a $\lambda$-system if and only if it satsifies $(\lambda_1), (\lambda_2 '),$ and $(\lambda_5)$.

Proof: Since $\Omega \in F$ and $A \subset \Omega$, then $\Omega \setminus A = A^c \in F$. Next, given a sequence, $A_1, \ldots$ of sets with $A_m \cap A_n = \emptyset$. Note that $A_m \subset A_{n}^{c}$ so then $A_{n}^c - A_{m} = A_{n}^{c} \cap A_{m}^{c} \in F$. Then we see that $A_m \cup A_n = (A_{n}^{c} \cap A_{m}^{c})^c \in F$. So the finite union of sets is still within $F$. Now, let $B_n = \cup_{i=1}^{n} A_i \in F$. The sequence $B_1, \ldots$ is increasing and thus converges by $(\lambda_5)$ to $A$. We have already shown that a $\lambda$-system satisfies the previous conditions before. So we are done.

Problem 3.14: Prove the existence of a Lebesgue set of Lebesgue measure 0 that is not a Borel set.

Proof:

Problem 3.16: Deduce directly by countable additivity that the Cantor set has Lebesgue measure 0.

Proof: At every iteration, the Cantor set has length $\frac{2^n}{3^n}$ for its $n$th iteration. So then as $n \rightarrow \infty$, we have that $\lambda(C_n) = 0$.
