My research lies at the intersection of applied topology, category theory, and chemical reaction networks. Broadly speaking, I am interested in how abstract mathematical structure can clarify complex dynamical systems and provide principled ways to simplify them without losing the phenomena that matter.

A central theme of my current work is the study of chemical reaction network reduction. Chemical reaction networks are often too large to analyze directly, so reduction methods are essential. I am particularly interested in understanding these reductions through a structural and categorical lens: what information a reduction preserves, how different notions of reduction are related, and when reduction procedures can be transported across mathematical models. This perspective connects topology, algebraic structure, and dynamics, and aims toward a more unified framework for reasoning about reaction networks.

More broadly, I am interested in the use of category-theoretic and topological methods in applied mathematics. These tools provide a language for comparing models, identifying shared structure, and organizing complicated systems in a way that can make both theory and computation more tractable.

Random Deposition of Tetris Pieces and their Topology:

[[https://pypi.org/project/tetris-ballistic/| Tetris Random Deposition]]

This Python package offers a suite of tools designed for simulating various random surface growth models. The foundational concepts and methodologies are significantly influenced by the work presented in the book by Barabási and Stanley [BarabasiS95] (1995) on fractal concepts in surface growth.

It is known that the fluctuations in the surface growth models fall into a few universality classes. The most famous one is the Kardar-Parisi-Zhang (KPZ) equation Kardar et al. [KPZ86]

$\frac{\partial h(t,x)}{\partial t} = \nu \nabla^2 h(t,x) + \frac{\lambda}{2}((\nabla h(t,x))^2 + \eta(t,x), \text{ } t>0, x \in \mathbb{R},$

Where $\eta$ is a centered Gaussian noise, which is white in both space and time. The KPZ equation is a stochastic partial differential equation (SPDE)
