= Exercise 1.2.5 =

Prove that $Tot(C)$ is acyclic if the double complex is bounded and the rows and columns are exact.

= Solution: = 

Let $C$ be a bounded double complex with exact rows and columns and consider $x=(x_{p,q}) \in Tot(C)_n$, where $p+q = n$ for any integers $p,q$.


Recall that $d(x_{p,q}) = d^h(x_{p,q}) + d^v(x_{p,q})$. Since $C$ is bounded, we can look at the north eastern most nontrivial module $C_{i,j}$ and hence nontrivial $Tot(C)_k$.

The procedure is as follow: Start with $d(x_{p,q}) = d^h(x_{p,q}) + d^v(x_{p,q})$, note that if $x_{p,q}$ lies in the kernel of $d$, then there exists an element $x_{p-1,q+1}$ such that $d^h(x_{p-1,q+1}) = 0$. Exactness of our columns then tells us that $x_{p-1,q+1}=d^v(x_{p-1,q+2})$. An identical argument can be made for the rows. Combining these facts together we see that every element in $Ker(d_{n})$ comes from an element in $Im(d_{n-1}$. Hence $Im(d_{n-1}) = Ker(d_n)$

Thus $Tot(C)$ is acyclic.

Exercise 1.3.1

Let $0 \to A \to B \to C \to 0$ be a short exact sequence of complexes. Show that if two of the three complexes A,B,C are exact, then so is the third.

Solution: First, let $B,C$ be exact complexes. Then, their homologies are 0 everywhere. So we can look at instead the short exact sequence $0 \to H_n(A) \to 0 \to 0 \to 0$. Wherein exactness tells us immediately that $H_n(A)$ is trivial, hence $A$ is exact. 

This argument can be repeated for $A,C$ and $A,B$. So we're done.

= Exercise 1.3.3: The 5 lemma =

= Solution: =

This one will be turned in by hand, it's better with the diagram and I can't use tikz in this environment.

= Exercise 1.3.5: = 

Let $f$ be a morphism of chain complexes. Show that if $ker(f)$ and $coker(f)$ are acyclic, then $f$ is a quasi-isomorphism. Is the converse true?

= Solution: =

Let $A,B$ be chain complexes and $f: A \to B$ a morphism. We will show that if $ker(f)$ and $coker(f)$ are acyclic, then $f$ is a quasi-isomorphism.

Notice that we get a short exact sequence $0 \to ker(f) \to A \to Im(f) \to 0$ and $0 \to Im(f) \to B \to coker(f) \to 0$. If we look at the long exact sequence of homology that is induced from the first part. It looks like $0 \to 0 \to H_n(A) \to H_n(Im(f)) \to 0$ since both $ker(f)$ and $Im(f)$ are acyclic. Exactness of this sequence tells us that $H_n(A) \cong H_n(Im(f))$. We can make the exact same argument for the other short exact sequence and the induced long exact sequence on homology for that. Which means we get $H_n(A) \cong H_n(Im(f)) \cong H_(B)$. Thus $f$ is a quasi-isomorphism from A to B. 

The converse is not true. This is show by the following example: Let $A$ be the chain complex $\ldots \to 0 \to 0 \to \mathbb{Z} \to \mathbb{Z} \to 0 \to \ldots$ and $B$ the chain complex $\ldots \to 0 \to \mathbb{Z} \to \mathbb{Z} \to 0 \to 0\to \ldots $ where only the middle $\mathbb{Z}$ terms coincide, everywhere else 0. 

If we let $f$ be the chain complex morphism $f: A \to B$ that sends the middle $\mathbb{Z}$ to the middle $\mathbb{Z}$ and everywhere else 0, then $ker(f)$ and $coker(f)$ are not acyclic. But $f$ is a quasi-isomorphism. Since the Homologies of $ker(f)$ and $coker(f)$ are nontrivial at exactly one place. 

= Exercise 1.4.1 =

1. Show that acyclic bounded below chain complexes of free R-modules are always split exact.

2. Show that an acyclic chain complex of finitely generated free abelian groups is always split exact, even when it is not bounded below. 
   
= Solution: =
   
= 1. =

Let $A.$ be an acyclic bounded below chain complex of free R-modules. 

The complex is exact, since it is acyclic.

Since $A_n$ is a free module, we can decompose its basis into a direct sum $A_n =  Z_n \oplus B'_n $ where $Z_n$ is the kernel of the chain map $d_n$ and $B'_n = A_n \ Z_n$. Since the complex is exact, we have that $Z_n = d(C_n) = B'_{n+1}$. So we can choose a basis in $B'_{n+1}$ and let $s_n:C_n \to C_{n+1}$ be s_n(z_i) = j_k where $z_i$ is an element of the basis for $Z_n$ and $j_k$ is a fixed choice of basis element of $B'_{n+1}$ and $s_n(0) = 0$. Our choice of $j_k$ is possible since free $R$-modules are projective. We can choose a basis for $Z_n$ and let $s_n: A_n \to A_{n+1}$ be the map which sets $ds= id$ on $Z_n$ via the projectivity of $Z_n$. So, we have a map $s$ such that $dsd = d$. Hence, $A.$ splits 


Allowing us to conclude that $A.$ is split exact.


= 2. =

Let $A.$ be an acyclic chain complex of finitely generated free abelian groups. 

The complex is exact, since it is acyclic.

Since $A_n$ is a finitely generated free group, we can decompose it into a direct sum $A_n = Z_n \oplus B'_n$ where $Z_n$ is the kernel of the chain map $d_n$ and $B'_n = A_n \ Z_n$. Since the complex is exact, we have that $Z_n = d(C_n) = B'_{n+1}$. So we can choose a basis in $B'_{n+1}$ and let $s_n:C_n \to C_{n+1}$ be s_n(e_i) = f_i where $d(f_i) = e_i$ and $e_i$ is an element of the basis for $Z_n$  since the kernel is also free. $f_i$ is an element of the basis of $B'_{n+1}$ and $s_n(0) = 0$. Our choice of $f_i$ is possible since free abelian groups are projective. We can choose a basis for $Z_n$ and let $s_n: A_n \to A_{n+1}$ be the map which sets $ds= id$ on $Z_n$ via the projectivity of $Z_n$. So, we have a map $s$ such that $dsd = d$. Hence, $A.$ splits

Thus, $A.$ is split exact.


= Exercise 1.5.1 = 

Let cone$(C)$ denote the mapping cone of the identity map $id_C$ of $C$; it has $C_{n-1} \oplus C_{n}$ in degree $n$. Show that cone$(C)$ is split exact, with $s(b,c)=(-c,0)$ defining the splitting map. 

= Solution: =

The mapping cone of the identity has $d$ defined as $d(a,b) = (-d(a),d(b) - a)$.

We check that $dsd=d$: 

$ \begin{split} d(s(d(a,b))) = d(s(-d(a),d(b) - a)) & = d(a-d(b), 0) \\  &= d(-d(a), 0 - (a-d(b))) \\ &= d(-d(a), d(b) -a) \\ &= d(a,b) \end{split}$

Thus, $dsd = d$ and $cone(C)$ is split.

To see exactness, since the identity map is a quasi-isomorphism, the mapping cone of the identity is exact, by Corrolary 1.5.4. . What would a direct proof look like?


